---
title: Err.. 
author: ~
date: '2020-10-03'
slug: Err in
categories: []
tags: Econometrics
subtitle: ''
summary: ''
authors: [Sayan Maity]
lastmod: '2020-10-03T09:14:49-03:00'
featured: no
image:
  caption: ''
  focal_point: ''
  preview_only: no
projects: []
---
In the previous post we discussed about a model -
$$D= a-bP+u$$  
Here, we want to explain how the demand of certain goods changes with the price of that good. But there can be other factors which are affecting the demand for that good. If we go back to our energy drink example, Energy drink is popular in a certain age group. So, if that age group is missing from the area, demand for energy drink will be lower even if the price is same. In many cases these types of factors are unknown to us. We represent all such unknown factors with this $u$.

Without the presence of these other factors, this relation would be deterministic. In that case if $P$ increased by one dollar, $D$ will decrease by $b$ unit. We can write this as. 
$$\frac{dD}{dP}=-b$$ 
Where, demand is changing with the price when other things are not changing. But in reality,  many things are changing at the same time. So, if the price $P$ increased by one dollar, that does not necessarily mean that the demand $D$ will decrease by $b$ unit exactly. So there exist some uncertainty in the movement of demand

In reality, we observe movements in demand for energy drinks even without the change in price. If we are in a perfect deterministic world, this will not be case. But unfortunately(or fortunately) that is not the world we live in. This *randomness* in demand is represented by this $u$

Now, if we generalize this model
$$Y_i= β_1+β_2 X_{2i}+β_3 X_{3i}+⋯+β_k X_{ki}+u_i$$

Henceforth we will be calling $Y$ as endogenous or dependent variable and $X$’s as exogenous or explanatory variable. Also, $β$'s are parameter for the model. Here, $i=1(1)n$ : number of observation and $k$ : number of parameters. 

As mentioned in the previous post, we are going to make certain assumptions about that ‘u’. These assumptions are very essential to build an econometric model to produce *best possible results*. We will discuss later what we mean by  *best possible result*.For now, lets focus on the assumptions-

*1*. All the effects of excluded variables cancel each other  $$E(u_t )=0$$ 

This means that those unobservable factors in our model has Zero effect **on average**.  In other ways we can say that while there might be variations, on average those variations are Zero. 
 
*2*. The spread or variance of the error term is constant for all the values of $X$’s $$Var(u_t )=E(u_t^2 )=constant$$ 

The variation in dependent variable (for our example demand) due to unobserved factors should stay same for any given value of dependent variables( price)

*3*. No association between error terms. $$E(u_t u_s )=0$$

This means that the unobserved factors are not dependent on each other.

*4*.Explanatory variables and the error terms are not also correlated.  $$E(X_{jt} u_s )=0$$

No association for included and excluded variables. Or the unobserved factor does not affect the observed factor. 

*5*. No exact linear relationship among $X$’s. Which means no perfect collinearity or no redundant variables. Which means the observed factors, or the independent factor should not be dependent on others ! 
 
*6*. Error term is normally distributed. $$u_t \sim N(0, \sigma^2)$$Or we can say it is well behaved. 


*7*. There shall be no specification bias or error. Or we can say the model is correct.

Many of these observation seems unrealistic. In real life two factors can be related to each other or past observations. Many of these assumptions does not work in real life, at least directly. Then, the question is why we should make these assumptions in the first place. The answers lie in our quest for aforementioned *best possible result* or in this case *best possible estimation* of the coefficient $\beta$.

In next post we will discuss that how do we estimate these $\beta$.s and why that estimate should be the *best possible estimation*.


